# Stage-Detection-of-Chronic-Kidney-Disease-

### Project Abstract :

Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) is one of worldwide medical challenges with high morbidity and death rate. Chronic kidney disease is a type of kidney disease in which there is gradual loss of kidney function over a period of months to years. Initially there are generally no symptoms; later, symptoms may include leg swelling, feeling tired etc. These symptoms are very similar to symptoms of other disease due to which many affected people side-line the cause. So detecting this disease gets very difficult. In chronic kidney disease, the glomeruli which are present inside the kidney are affected. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is a replicating virus that can lead to acquired immune deficiency syndrome(AIDS).Up to 30% of people with HIV or AIDS have protein in their urine, a sign of abnormal kidney function, and about 10% of people with HIV develop kidney disease. Some treatments for CKD include managing phosphorus levels, reducing blood pressure, managing fluid balance and/or antiretroviral therapy. With the availability of pathology data, the use of machine-learning techniques in healthcare for classification and prediction of disease has become more common. Here the classification of CKD using machine learning models is done. Based on the glomerular filtration rate, the CKD stages are also calculated for patients diagnosed with CKD. DNN model outperforms with 99% of accuracy in classifying CKD patients with HIV.

